In the beginning God created heaven, and earth.
And the earth was void and empty, and darkness was upon the face of the deep; and the spirit of God moved over the waters.
And God said:  Be light made.  And light was made.
And God saw the light that it was good; and he divided the light from the darkness.
And he called the light Day, and the darkness Night; and there was evening and morning one day.
And God said:  Let there be a firmament made amidst the waters:  and let it divide the waters from the waters.
And God made a firmament, and divided the waters that were under the firmament, from those that were above the firmament, and it was so.
And God called the firmament, Heaven; and the evening and morning were the second day.
God also said; Let the waters that are under the heaven, be gathered together into one place:  and let the dry land appear.  And it was so done.
And God called the dry land, Earth; and the gathering together of the waters, he called Seas.  And God saw that it was good.
And he said:  let the earth bring forth green herb, and such as may seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after its kind, which may have seed in itself upon the earth.  And it was so done.
And the earth brought forth the green herb, and such as yieldeth seed according to its kind, and the tree that beareth fruit, having seed each one according to its kind.  And God saw that it was good.
And the evening and the morning were the third day.
And God said:  Let there be lights made in the firmament of heaven, to divide the day and the night, and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days and years:
To shine in the firmament of heaven, and to give light upon the earth, and it was so done.
And God made two great lights:  a greater light to rule the day; and a lesser light to rule the night:  and the stars.
And he set them in the firmament of heaven to shine upon the earth.
And to rule the day and the night, and to divide the light and the darkness.  And God saw that it was good.
And the evening and morning were the fourth day.
God also said:  let the waters bring forth the creeping creature having life, and the fowl that may fly over the earth under the firmament of heaven.
And God created the great whales, and every living and moving creature, which the waters brought forth, according to their kinds, and every winged fowl according to its kind.  And God saw that it was good.
And he blessed them, saying:  Increase and multiply, and fill the waters of the sea:  and let the birds be multiplied upon the earth.
And the evening and morning were the fifth day.
And God said:  Let the earth bring forth the living creature in its kind, cattle and creeping things, and beasts of the earth, according to their kinds.  And it was so done.
And God made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds, and cattle, and every thing that creepeth on the earth after its kind. And God saw that it was good.
And he said:  Let us make man to our image and likeness:  and let him have dominion over the fishes of the sea, and the fowls of the air, and the beasts, and the whole earth, and every creeping creature that moveth upon the earth.
And God created man to his own image:  to the image of God he created him:  male and female he created them.
And God blessed them, saying:  Increase and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and rule over the fishes of the sea, and the fowls of the air, and all living creatures that move upon the earth.
And God said:  Behold I have given you every herb bearing seed upon the earth, and all trees that have in themselves seed of their own kind, to be your meat:
And to all beasts of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to all that move upon the earth, and wherein there is life, that they may have to feed upon.  And it was so done.
And God saw all the things that he had made, and they were very good.  And the evening and morning were the sixth day.
So the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the furniture of them.
And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made:  and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had done.
And he blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it:  because in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made.
These are the generations of the heaven and the earth, when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made the heaven and the earth:
And every plant of the field before it sprung up in the earth, and every herb of the ground before it grew:  for the Lord God had not rained upon the earth; and there was not a man to till the earth.
But a spring rose out of the earth, watering all the surface of the earth.
And the Lord God formed man of the slime of the earth:  and breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a living soul.
And the Lord God had planted a paradise of pleasure from the beginning:  wherein he placed man whom he had formed.
And the Lord God brought forth of the ground all manner of trees, fair to behold, and pleasant to eat of:  the tree of life also in the midst of paradise:  and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
And a river went out of the place of pleasure to water paradise, which from thence is divided into four heads.
The name of the one is Phison:  that is it which compasseth all the land of Hevilath, where gold groweth.
And the gold of that land is very good:  there is found bdellium, and the onyx stone.
And the name of the second river is Gehon:  the same is it that compasseth all the land of Ethiopia.
And the name of the third river is Tigris:  the same passeth along by the Assyrians.  And the fourth river is Euphrates.
And the Lord God took man, and put him into the paradise of pleasure, to dress it, and to keep it.
And he commanded him, saying:  Of every tree of paradise thou shalt eat:
But of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat.  For in what day soever thou shalt eat of it, thou shalt die the death.
And the Lord God said:  It is not good for man to be alone:  let us make him a help like unto himself.
And the Lord God having formed out of the ground all the beasts of the earth, and all the fowls of the air, brought them to Adam to see what he would call them:  for whatsoever Adam called any living creature the same is its name.